---
layout: post
title: Day 5
categories: [content, demo]
---
# Day 5

The last day was a shortened class that wrapped up everything that we've learned. People were invited to share their projects and ask questions. One of the professors from Mary and William University was willing to share! She uses the XML family tree to digitize a series of diaries by Mary Virginia Montgomery, a Black woman from the 19th century. However, she said she encountered issues with formatting as the dates were not spelled the same across the entire diary. For example, some days were day-month-year and some were month-day-year, which made it hard for her to organize them chronilogically through her initial run through with XML.
She shared some files, and my professor Elisa played around with options to streamline the process by using Xpath and FLOWR expressions to help batch correct errors in one run instead of correcting the same error multiple times. The way she did this was thorugh Schematron, whicuh she used to create an expression where if the month was before the year, then it would be batch sorted by the day first instead. It was really cool to see afterwards! I really enjoyed seeing our work in class being applied to personal projects that were useful to people. 

Once class was over, we had a short conference where our professors discussed what each class had done over the week. I saw how people's work would come to life through mapmaking, diagrams, and everything in between. It was truly eye-opening to see how DHSI coudl be so adaptable to everyone's projects. 

With a free afternoon, I spent some time traveling! I went to Old Montreal and walked around a ton. It was so beautiful and I had so much fun seeing all the beautiful architecture like at the Notre Dame Basilica de Montreal. I was floored by the beauty there - absolutely amazing! It was an excellent cap to a great week where I learned a lot through doing. DHSI taught me a ton about what it means to use digital humanities in a way that can upload and preserve work, and it was amazing to connect with people like me to grow their knowledge. 
